                                                                              HANDWRITTEN DIGIT RECOGNITION
->This project implements a Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) to classify handwritten digits from the MNIST dataset.
->It includes steps for loading, training, testing, and saving the model, along with an option to predict custom images.

Features
✅ Load and preprocess the MNIST dataset (grayscale, normalization, and one-hot encoding).
✅ Build a CNN model with convolutional and pooling layers for feature extraction.
✅ Train the model using Adam optimizer and categorical cross-entropy loss.
✅ Save and load the trained model (cnn_mnist_model.h5).
✅ Predict custom images using a preprocessing pipeline.

Technologies Used
TensorFlow/Keras – Deep learning framework
NumPy – Data processing
Pillow (PIL) – Image handling
Matplotlib – Visualization

How It Works?
-Load the MNIST dataset and preprocess images (reshape, normalize, one-hot encode labels).
-Define and train the CNN model on training data with validation on test data.
-Save the trained model for future predictions.
-Load and preprocess a custom image (grayscale, resize, invert colors, normalize).
-Predict the digit using the trained CNN model.

Setup & Usage
1. Install Dependencies
Ensure the required packages are installed:

bash
Copy
Edit
pip install tensorflow numpy pillow matplotlib
2. Run the Training Script
bash
Copy
Edit
python train_mnist.py
This will train and save the CNN model as cnn_mnist_model.h5.

3. Predict a Custom Image
Modify the script to use predict_custom_image('path_to_image.png', cnn_model) to test a custom handwritten digit image.

Future Enhancements
🔹 Experiment with deeper CNN architectures for improved accuracy.
🔹 Implement data augmentation to enhance generalization.
🔹 Add real-time digit drawing and classification.
Looking forward to integrate it with real time problem solving scenarios (For banking,Medical services and so on)
We can also integrate with a simple graphical user interface to make it convenient for user.

Contributions
Contributions, issues, and feature requests are welcome! Feel free to fork this repository and submit pull requests.

